---
name: Eshwar Ramasetti
title: Numerical investigation of temperature distribution, cooling, structural and frequency analysis of gas turbine blades using FEM/CFD methods
mydate: June 30, 2022
tag: 11
---
Gas turbines are largely used for aircraft propulsion, power generation, oil and gas and various other industrial applications. They are operated at very high temperatures, where hot gas from the combustion chamber flows past the turbine blades. This may cause severe damage to the components of the gas turbine engine, and it reduces the lifespan of the turbine blade. Therefore, it is very important to cool the turbine blade for the safe operation of the gas turbine engine and to improve the performance. Many methods have been proposed for cooling of blades and one approach is to pass cooling air through radial holes with high velocity along the blade span. In this present work, Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) simulations are used to investigate the heat transfer analysis of a gas turbine with models consisting of several inline holes and to compare it to models without holes. Structural analysis for gas turbine blades has been carried out to investigate the stresses and total deformation using Finite Element Modelling in ANSYS software. To study the effect of different material properties on the induced stresses and total deformation, stainless steel, titanium alloy, copper alloy and aluminium alloy were used. In next steps, reduced order modelling approach will be implemented in ANSYS or any Open-source software to reduce the complexity and time for the simulations.
